Improve gotchas in React (#1517)
enkidevs/curriculum: javascript/react/gotchas/dangerously-set-innerhtml.md

React gives you the ability to insert *raw* HTML.

> Take into consideration that this practice is definitely to be avoided because it makes your code vulnerable to *cross-site scripting* (XSS).

Reviewer: Add a footnote for XSS

Author: Added the following footnote:

[1: XSS]
Cross-Site Scripting (or XSS) is a type of attack in which malicious scripts are injected into otherwise trusted websites. These attacks occur when the attacker uses a web app to send the malicious code to a different unsuspecting user. The most widespread flaw that allows this type of attack is represented by apps that make use of user input in their output, without validating or encoding it.

Reviewer: Perfect 👍

React named the prop which is used to pass this data as `dangerouslySetInnerHTML`. A key is used to specify the text with `__html`:

```jsx
dangerouslySetInnerHTML: {
  __html: "<p>My HTML text </p>";
}
```

The recommended way of using `dangerouslySetInnerHTML` when needed is by creating an object containing only the key `__html` and your *sanitized*[1] data as the value.

```jsx
function createMarkup() {
  return { __html: "<p>My HTML text </p>" };
}
```

The next step is to pass the `createMarkup()` function as a value for your `dangerouslySetInnerHTML` prop:

```jsx
<div
  dangerouslySetInnerHTML={createMarkup()}
/>
```

This method will prevent incorrect rendering.

Let's say that you mistakenly write the following code:

```jsx
<div
  dangerouslySetInnerHTML={getUsername()}
/>
```

> Fortunately, this will not render because `getUsername()` would return a string, but `dangerouslySetInnerHTML` expects and object of the type `__html: ''`. By using a function to return the wrapper object we ensure that only *sanitized* data is returned. For this same reason, we also recommend against writing this type of code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fortunately, this will not render because `getUsername()` would return a string, but `dangerouslySetInnerHTML` expects and object of the type `__html: ''`. By forcing you to write an object with a special `__html` property, it increases that chance that you will remember to *sanitized* the data. 

You still have to be careful. The following code can also leak sensitive data:
```

React gives you the ability to insert *raw* HTML.

Take into consideration that this practice is definitely to be avoided because it makes your code vulnerable to *cross-site scripting* (XSS[1]).

React named the prop which is used to pass this data as `dangerouslySetInnerHTML`. A key is used to specify the text with `__html`:

```jsx
dangerouslySetInnerHTML: {
  __html: "<p>My HTML text </p>";
}
```

The recommended way of using `dangerouslySetInnerHTML` when needed is by creating an object containing only the key `__html` and your *sanitized*[2] data as the value.

```jsx
function createMarkup() {
  return { __html: "<p>My HTML text </p>" };
}
```

The next step is to pass the `createMarkup()` function as a value for your `dangerouslySetInnerHTML` prop:

```jsx
<div
  dangerouslySetInnerHTML={createMarkup()}
/>
```

This method will prevent incorrect rendering.

Let's say that you mistakenly write the following code:

```jsx
<div
  dangerouslySetInnerHTML={getUsername()}
/>
```

> Fortunately, this will not render because `getUsername()` would return a string, but `dangerouslySetInnerHTML` expects and object of the type `__html: ''`. By forcing you to write an object with a special `__html` property, it increases that chance that you will remember to *sanitize* the data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fortunately, this will not render because `getUsername()` would return a string, but `dangerouslySetInnerHTML` expects an object of the shape `{ __html: string }`. This design is on purpose. By forcing you to write an object with an unusually named `__html` property, React increases the chances that you will actually remember to *sanitize* the data.
```

You still have to be careful. The following code can also leak sensitive data:

```jsx

> <div

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{/* we still have to sanitize HTML within getMarkup */}
<div
```
